<title>a pure Lua JVM</title>

<h3>What is it?</h3>

luje is an experimental (read: toy) Java virtual machine written in pure
Lua. It works by compiling Java bytecode into Lua scripts on-the-fly and
then running them using Mike Pall's <a href="http://luajit.org/">LuaJIT
2</a>. The result is an extremely fast but incredibly lightweight Java
virtual machine which can outperform Sun's Hotspot in some situations.

<h3>What's new?</h3>

<b>2013-09-02</b>: Placeholder website goes live.

<h3>Where can I get it?</h3>

It's currently unreleased, but if you're desperate you can download
an <a href="../../../tarball/luje-tip.tar.gz?uuid=tip">the latest version
from the VCS</a>. This is not guaranteed to work, or even to build. 

Another way of getting the version under development is by
checking out the source repository using <a href="http://fossil-scm.org">the
Fossil DVCS</a>. Use the following commands:

<verbatim>fossil clone http://cowlark.com/luje luje.fossil
mkdir calculon
cd calculon
fossil open ../calculon.fossil
</verbatim>

You will need LuaJIT 2; it doesn't work on stock Lua, or on LuaJIT 1.

<h3>How do I use it?</h3>

Right now, don't --- it's not suitable for public consumption.

<h3>Who wrote it?</h3>

I, <a href="http://cowlark.com">David Given</a>, wrote it. Got any comments,
criticism, cake? Send it to <a href="mailto:dg@cowlark.com">dg@cowlark.com</a>.
If there's interest, I'll set up a mailing list.

<h3>What's the license?</h3>

luje is distributable under the terms of the <a href="copying.wiki">Simplified
BSD License</a>. It also contains code derived from the Apache Harmony project,
which is available under the Apache 2.0 license.

<h2 class='comments-title'>Comments on this page</h2>
<table class='comments' border='0'><tr>
<td id='commentator-viewer'></td>
<td id='commentator-poster'></td>
</tr></table>

